Mike: Jessica.
Mike: Oh, it's been a
Mike: It's been a wild week
Mike: It's been so crazy. I don't know my my hours have got an alternative around. I mean, ever since I've been like under this core and being, being a I'm like everything's all messed up. I missed meeting on Monday.
Mike: And I ended up
Mike: Sleeping all afternoon.
Mike: I'm like my hours are just totally, totally shot right now and it's like starting to affect me. You know, because I wasn't able to, like, I'm not able to get to sleep on
Mike: What normal time is I'm not burning off any of the energy I normally do at work and it's just it's just getting all mixed up. You know, like I've lost track. And I didn't snap, what day it was for a minute, and then I did, and I fell asleep, and it's just been it's been ridiculous.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Are you showing any sentence.
Mike: Um, yeah, just
Mike: Like uneasy, my stomach has been a little icky, um,
Mike: I haven't shown any like fever or anything like that. My stomach's a little bit jacked. But I think that might be because I've been taking a because I missed a meeting, I didn't get a prescription. So I
Mike: Kind of with what I had last trip just been taking whatever I can just to get by tiger my prescription, which I think there might be one there now.
Mike: But
Mike: So it's just been crazy
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah, I was wondering where you were on my name. And I thought, well, I wonder if the symptoms started to present itself.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And then I'm when I'm going to hear from you about that coming I sell my gosh, I hope, as well. So thanks for reaching out on my
Mike: Feeling was like
Mike: Starting to get a little bit icky, um,
Mike: And I thought that that might have been a related symptom, and in which, in case it kind of is. But I think what mine was was just from everything that's going on.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, with less medication. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I
Mike: And I was intending fully to be there because I need it.
Mike: You know, and it is so bad that um yeah
Mike: It just been horrible, but I got in touch with everybody that I think I need to so far. And we'll be
Mike: Doing a group as soon as possible.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Well, anyway, thoughts, what's been coming up for you.
Mike: Um,
Mike: I don't know, it's been
Mike: A lot of
Mike: Just trying to resist the, you know, trying to find stuff to pass the time.
Mike: Has been really difficult.
Mike: Constant.
Mike: Thought of like going and going to the normal spot that I would use on is
Mike: Been presenting itself real frequently
Mike: Just
Mike: Trying to rationalize you know both I catch both my addictive mind and my sober mind all working
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I
Mike: Catch my addictive mind trying to rationalize
Mike: A reason to use. And so I am catching that and and
Mike: You know, getting a dose of reality that that's not actually
Mike: Something to do
Mike: You know, and that's what got me here in the first place. Team causing problems for
Mike: As long as
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Challenging those thoughts because
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The red side thoughts, but definitely present itself convince you that you know there's going to be okay. You just use months and we feel so much better. Nobody has to know different things to give us a sense of temporary comfort in the midst of everything that you're experiencing.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And there's so much uncertainty right now, but one thing you can be certain to is that if you use. It's only a temporary fix. It's not only to make you feel better, any of these thoughts are coming up for you throughout the week.
Mike: On gap probably
Mike: All of them at one point or another, um, I like I said
Mike: I've tried to rationalize like my catch my addictive mind trying to rationalize it to myself, I'm in is I've gone through probably every single one of those thoughts at one point or another, during this last week.
Mike: At least once a day.
Mike: There's, there's probably a few of them that
Mike: I've told myself.
Mike: If more than once, you know,
Mike: I'm
Mike: Like I said, I usually will try to do something different. I find that like
Mike: I was snacking and eating a bit more
Mike: Probably smoking more cigarettes just
Mike: Trying to pass and I'm mostly, I guess.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I wanted to share a video with you and see which which characteristic you identify with most but before I do that, is there anything that you want to discuss that I can help you with in this moment.
Mike: That's not right at this particular moment. Um, are we going to be able to see each other again next week, or is that
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yes, you can.
Mike: Okay, cool. Um, yeah. What I think I'd like to do is maybe
Mike: Write down the things and and then kind of be a little bit better prepared for
Mike: That appointment like this, you know,
Mike: I'm, as I said, you know, it's just
Mike: There's been a few issues and in this week. And so it wasn't quite prepared as much as I wanted to be. And I think would be able to be come on next meeting.
Mike: So,
Mike: That would be awesome if we could
Mike: At some point, next week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, well, do you want to keep it is easier to just keep the same time in the same day.
Mike: Yeah, that would be fine. That would work.
Mike: Well with me for my schedule.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Today is 16
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: How about Thursday the 23rd at six o'clock.
What works great.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: April know that you showed up.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: For the session as well.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Mike: And I did my week we bomb.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: What we're. Yes, I saw it. I saw that you did your survey. So we were expecting you, um,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But I can, I can understand because I'm still doing my structure. It looks just a little different and I lost track of these so I can imagine all of that being taken away and you have into self isolate
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Like how you would lose track of the days is
Mike: Where I'm like
Mike: Totally discombobulated with the outside world right now.
It's kinda
Mike: I'm ready to to get out.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: when when when this field, the field.
Mike: I will be
Mike: Gone on
Mike: I believe it's Monday of this next week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay.
Mike: Bye. How like
Mike: Seven days look a little less than seven days away. But
Mike: So far, so good.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I'm going to share my screen with you and I've had sessions, back to back. So I'm going to stand up. I hope it doesn't distract you, but
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Understand how conflict arises between people, often in dramatic or intense relationships or interactions theory. Okay. And it was
Mike: conceived by a guy.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Called Stephen Cartman in 1968
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And it involves three different roles one that's kind of cold, a one down role and two that are called one approach.
Is three roles. The victim, the rescuer
persecutor
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And I think understanding how these roles work can really help us to identify how we could be resolving potentially destructive interactions that are quite
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Draining on our energy. So let's start with the victim role. I think the victim role is quite self explanatory. It's the person who feels helpless and powerless, like they can never cut a break.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or they can never get ahead in life. They often think things like, you know, this always happens to me.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Another role in this drama triangle is the rescuer and this person is someone who takes responsibility for other people's problems.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And they kind of make it their own problems. But at the same time, they don't really look at their own life, which could in fact be a complete mess.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And they'll say people who might be going through a difficult time and think, oh look at that person you know they need help. I'm nice so I'll help them or maybe something a bit more parental like if that person did what I said they'd be happy.
And I think the dynamic that we often say play out between the victim.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And the rescuer is something that we see in movies and, you know, romantic comedies all the time. It's something that we almost think is normal.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: But it really is an unhealthy interaction. So the third row on this triangle is a persecutor. This is a person who is frustrated. They kind of self righteous and a bit of a bullied.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You know, and they might think things like you know they're wrong. And I'm right may need to do what I say.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or that person will get what's coming to them. Another thing that's really important to recognize it at this triangle is that each of these roles move between each other.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So, you know, the rescuer can become a prostitute or or the prosecutor can become the victim, the victim can become a persecutor so they all kind of move around.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Another concept that's really important to understand when talking about the drama triangle is this idea of the starting gate, we tend to have this one role that we most naturally sort of entry into
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So for instance, you know one person might often go straight to the victim law where someone else might jump into the rescue.
The other thing that's really interesting about this is that starting get role, sort of, is part of what we see other an identity and like I said before, we shift from one role to the other.
Inevitably, we all end up in the victim role feeling powerless and helpless and then I able to do anything. And that's why it's really important to work out strategies for how to get out of this triangle.
So I guess that brings me to the next question. How do we get out of this drama triangle.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let's take it by looking at each role again. So in the one down victim role, we need to become a survivor. In order to do this.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We need to think like a problem solver and ask ourselves questions like what do I want and what steps can I take to get what I want another useful thing to do is to reflect on the good things that are going away.
So we can make a note of it in a calendar or diary.
You know, ask ourselves questions like What are three things that I'm grateful for today.
Or at the end of each week we could ask ourselves, what did I change this week.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So let's move on to the rescue role. Again, if this is where you tend to find yourself sitting, you need to think of yourself as a teacher or a coach.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Rather than as a rescuer you need to remember the golden rule that teaching a man to fish.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you need to support and encourage the person in ways to identify and solve their problems rather than rushing into solve it for them.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You can also things like, what is it that you want to say happen in a situation or what do you think you can do to changes.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Also, you need to make sure that you set boundaries setting boundaries around the time that you're able to listen to the place and and letting them know that is really important.
In some ways it's a similar situation with the starting gate persecutor who like the rescue up but some cells in the sort of one not power powerful position.
The difference is with this role is that you need to become a challenge, need to be firm but fair in your approach to people.
And to help the person recognize how you're feeling, you need to sort of address the consequences of their actions and set boundaries. So for instance, you could say something like, if you if you keep your side of the agreement, I can Kate long
As we're the rescuer. It's important to remember to set these boundaries and recognize that this isn't your problem to solve.
By freeing ourselves from this drama triangle, we are able to have happier, healthier relationships with people. We won't feel so drained and powerless and will also be able to identify toxic relationships that we may in fact be better off without
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: This is a model to help us understand how
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: We thought
Mike: I was crazy. I could recognize myself in each of the positions and like some of the other people in their positions and I was glad to see that it does interchange because it does interchange like totally I
Mike: It's crazy. Um,
Mike: I was kind of almost thinking at times like there was like some bipolar illness or something going on but
Mike: I think it's sometimes you get operating in that circle or triangle rather
And
Mike: It's not like
Mike: It's real easy to get to stay in that kind of
Mike: Where that pocket.
Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And they see that as a starting gate. So there's one that you kind of naturally I'm aligned to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Probably depending on the circumstances or the individual you're around, you may operate or reshipped what your role is, has that been your experience. Yeah. I would definitely agree, um,
Mike: Because I think typically I jumped into like the rescuer role.
Mike: A lot of times, you know, and
Mike: It's exactly correct. A lot of times I'll focus on the problems that other maybe others have rather than my own and I do it in my head I'm doing it like selfless me but
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I Steve.
Mike: Were at times. It's probably better for me selfishly focus on myself for a while yet my backyard clean so to speak first before I you know anything about anybody else's
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Yeah yeah
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: So you said that sometimes you identify with other roles to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: When do you typically take on the other rooms as persecutor and victim what's going on.
Mike: Um, I went like pump billing gown arm.
Mike: Or whatever, I think, at times like I've taken on the victim role, maybe I'm
Mike: Or like if I'm feeling defensive defensive maybe
Mike: Being good times.
Mike: That could take place. It's not typical that I mean like it's more predominant that I go I think into the other role, but I can recognize times that I have gone into the other role and as well as like when I'm talking to my small youngest brother, I'm
Mike: I'm whom had substance abuse problems. I was more the persecutor type of role, you know,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Is that before your addiction started or during the course of your I did.
Mike: Um, before and during both
Mike: Mean
Mike: I mean, I guess it was back when I was only taking pain medication.
Mike: That I was being prescribed on
Mike: And I, there was a period of time where I may where I felt like I had everything under control still
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In so
Mike: That was kind of the place. I was at. And that was right around the time that my mother had passed away.
Mike: About a year and a half ago or longer.
Mike: Oh, yeah.
Mike: Almost two years ago.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because it just said the addiction, kind of just snuck up on you ever really would imagine that this would be you know your fate and so
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Then all of a sudden, this happens. So a lot of people tend to take on the persecutor roles when they have or they know someone that is an active addiction.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: In this, especially if it's hardcore drugs, then it takes on that persecutor role because you think in your purse security role that you're helping and you're going to commit
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The person to stop. So in a sense, you have that rescuer and persecutor role that you're using interchangeably.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Because the goal is, I'm going to rescue you, and I'm going to get you out of visited the state. This is the tactic component to you.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I can see more. So how the rescuer and the persecutor role could be used interchangeably. Because in at the core of the rescue of natural starting gate, you may use a persecutor role as a tactic. When you are tips to rescue aren't being, you know,
Mike: I here to her right
One.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And in the victim state. Have you been been like that. Has that been your current situation, what will you identify most with in this current state.
Mike: I'm probably bar for the last
Mike: Little while the last three weeks, probably are so I'm
Mike: Just kind of overwhelmed with some sensations. I'm there.
Mike: You know that. And then, you know, some insomnia and then of course you know doing their cyber self isolation feel is definitely compound, get it.
Mike: So,
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's been
Mike: I would say a lot recently. You know that particular role, I would say as being as a more lately than
Than usual before
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: One small victories.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Celebrate for this past week.
Mike: My red flag thought
Mike: Finding ways to find encouragement. I'm to push myself further and not look back
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: The fact that even in this isolation.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: That is where the red flag. That's a brand because you got nothing but time
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: It's only so many distractions. You can do and spite that you still able
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: To be
Mike: Back and the
Mike: Good. So is it probably helped me that over this week I'm not allowed to leave. Um, because it may have
Mike: I may have been able to talk myself into going maybe some place to gotten something
Mike: You know, or had been out and said, Hey, well, you know, I can just gold. Maybe over here. So you probably help I can maybe during a couple of days.
Mike: After that,
Mike: You know happening.
Mike: There were there were a couple of days that
Mike: That I could tell it was like pretty heavy heavier than normal. Yeah.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Let's talk about your
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Your current environment. So you live with your girlfriend, but with everything that's going on to she's still there, are you
Mike: Pitching yeah yeah I'm just gonna hold different room.
Mike: I'm thankfully it's a good size home and
Mike: We, you know, there's not a lot of us, you know, so there's room I'm
Mike: Like throughout the house so
Mike: You know, we're able to
Mike: Be able to be, you know, to talk, but I'm not. I'm able to isolate off and it doesn't really affect a whole lot of the house like
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: You would
Mike: Want to be
Mike: Which is good because I never probably be a problem to
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Know about phone conversations will have you been able to contact in the necklace.
Mike: Um, you know, like
Mike: I think I've probably talked to more people recently and it will be them before.
Mike: In previous
Weeks, just because
Mike: I think subconsciously I'm wanting to get out so bad. And so I find myself like reaching out more than normal.
Mike: And maybe talking more than I normally would, you know, and where normally I'm just like, whoa, they don't need to know or whatever, you know, and I'll
Mike: Kind of
Mike: Oh man, certain conversations, maybe at times where I find myself.
Mike: In, you know, divulging
Mike: And going into those conversations
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And when we met last week you gave me a lot of history about
Family
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: And your course of addiction and just what brought you to the program. Now, any family relationships that you want to discuss
Mike: Um,
Mike: I was thinking maybe that stuff that we could get on next week.
Mike: Because I do have some stuff. But I want to be a little bit more prepared to write down like whatever thing that I kind of wanted to
Mike: Discuss within that
Mike: Little bit more.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Or even right now. Did you get enough rest. Do you want to make it a 30 minute session. That would be nice. I mean, I've
Mike: Been getting like drowsy around this time and then like all fall asleep for a couple hours and I'll wake up.
Mike: And then
Mike: It's just an ongoing fight.
Mike: For the time being, I think, you know, until I kind of get some regularity kind of working for me again.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: I understand. I understand. Thanks for showing up, um, despite how you're feeling that's honorable thing to do. I'm firm.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Sure.
Mike: So that would be next.
Mike: Thursday at 2PM
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Right. Yeah. Yeah. And then you can whatever feels like a stressor current just my past dressing that you want to discuss. We can talk about it in the next session.
Mike: Okay, perfect.
Mike: That would work great.
Jessica Bailey-Pierre: Okay, okay.
Mike: Thank you.
Mike: Have a good one, you too. Bye bye.